# AWS-AF-GP7
DATA225-Group Project-Team 7
Data storage, retrieval, and manipulation made possible by Database Management Systems (DBMS) are critical components that enable analytics. Along with guaranteeing data consistency and integrity, it provides a systematic framework for managing and organizing massive amounts of data. This project revolves around the development of an Election Prediction System by leveraging the power of DBMS to analyze political articles within the “NYT Articles: 2.1M+ (2000-Present) Daily Updated'' dataset from kaggle.com and predict election outcomes. The system will use both historical and real-time data from the New York Times dataset to forecast upcoming election outcomes. The system utilizes a dataset comprising demographics, socioeconomic indicators, previous election results, and real-time sentiment data extracted from the data to forecast the potential success of political candidates or parties in upcoming elections. Keywords are employed to filter relevant political information, while unnecessary columns are edited out during data preprocessing. The research starts with customizing the dataset, such that it provides thorough insights of the political landscape, highlighting the importance of past trends and current information in interpreting voter behavior. This dataset will be leveraged to create a cloud-based database that will be configured to securely store and manage the selected dataset, ensuring scalability, accessibility, and data security through private network configurations. The predictive election system's accuracy and reliability in forecasting election results are evaluated through testing and validation against election data. Visualization techniques are employed to derive insights from the dataset, enabling the creation of insights for improved decision-making. In conclusion, based on data-driven insights into electoral dynamics, the proposed Predictive Election System provides political stakeholders, campaign strategists and voters with a useful tool that will help them allocate resources wisely and make well-informed decisions.
